---
title: "MuLeS: A Multi-Client Learning-Based MPQUIC Scheduler"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024_ccnc
excerpt: 'Trung Thanh Nguyen, **Minh Hai Vu**, Thi Ha Ly Dinh, Phi Le Nguyen, Kien Nguyen'
venue: '2024 IEEE 21st Consumer Communications & Networking Conference (CCNC))'
slidesurl: 'http://mhai247.github.io/files/ccnc2024.txt'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10454897'
---

Multipath QUIC (MPQUIC) is an emerging multi-path transport protocol that lets a mobile client simultaneously use several wireless networks (e.g., Wi-Fi and cellular) in 5G and beyond. MPQUIC's performance heavily relies on its scheduler, which determines a path or several ones for sending packets in the upcoming time slot. Despite numerous efforts, the traditional design of MPQUIC schedulers can not handle wireless networks' dynamicity. Recently, a learning-based approach has shown the potential to bypass such limitations of the MPQUIC scheduler with various learning-based schedulers proposed in the literature. However, the existing works only consider the scheduling task in a single client context. When applying such a scheduler to multiple client scenarios (likely to occur in practice), they suffer from a so-called rush scheduling phenomenon. More specifically, the packet forwarding decisions made by a scheduler are only accountable to one client, resulting in conflicts of interest with other clients' schedulers. Consequently, it may harm the network performance. This paper addresses the issue and designs a learning-based MPQUIC scheduler considering the existence of multiple clients. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to do so. We propose MuLeS, a learning-based scheduler for MPQUIC in the multi-client scenario. MuLeS uses a central controller, which allows it to observe the state of all flows in the network. Our evaluation results show that MuLeS outperforms contemporary schedulers in terms of various metrics, including download time and loss rate. Notably, MuLeS reduces the average download time by 7%-16% compared to the other schedulers.